Meeting notes 28.11.2025:

I open the page "http://localhost:3000/app/phases/2/admin/learning-objectives/results/29", and first I present to Ulf the current implementation demo of PMT input.

After showing PMT processing, I show the LO results page to Ulf. From the UI, we've shown "20 Skill Gaps to Train" so Ulf thinks that in all competencies we have a gap because the total competency is 16. I'm not sure if what Ulf said is true. Think from your side. Afterwards, we show the info "16 Total Competencies" in UI - Ulf wants it as "competencies with gap" instead of total competencies. So maybe we show the number of unique competencies that have any gap found across the different levels.  The term used "Skill Gaps to Train" needs wording to be as "Levels to advance". Then I added this info to confirm with Ulf that these "20 Skill Gaps to Train" would be the 20 modules or the levels to advance as well proportionally in the module selection of the training. Yep, so this data can be used in the module selection task in phase 3. 

Then I show the pyramid view and list of LOs created. For the LO texts, Ulf says that currently we present the LO text for each competencies as fluent texts or as one big paragraph. It would be nice to have maybe like bullet points for each sentence. And then it's more visible. Makes it easier to see How many learning objectives are actually present in system architecting competency at this moment, for example. Then Ulf spots a mismatch of the LO text generated for competency "Agile Methods". For example, in Level 1, it shows the LO text as "The participant knows various SysML diagram types including Requirements Diagram (REQ) for capturing requirements, Block Definition Diagram (BDD) for system structure, Internal Block Diagram (IBD) for internal connections, Activity Diagram (ACT) for workflows, and State Machine Diagram (STM) for discrete behavior, along with overall modeling best practices.". So Ulf asks me How will I ensure the validation of this mapping that's more accurate. For example, Ulf says that currently for the competency Agile methods, the generated LO text has SysML diagrams in it, so it's a wrong mapping. - My understanding is that we have to first check our template_v2 json file first and then check the LLM prompt and whether we are correctly sending the structured input data (e.g., competency name, it's required level's LO template text, etc..) and ensuring that we are getting the result in the correct structured manner so we don't lose track of which output LLM created LO text for which competency and which level, etc.. Ulf asks me - "to ensure that AI is allocating these things correctly or interpreting what AI's done to the input you gave him. AI was reading it, and it was somehow mapping it to the competencies and in this mapping there has been a mistake. Maybe we have to adapt the LLM prompt - it's like too much as 1 prompt so that we have to maybe split this a little more up and maybe use multiple prompts or certain aspects.". Ulf says - "One last thought would be from my perspective here is - when we upload one file, I don't know what's happening, but I would say we upload a file and then using AI we say all right, check this file and What is the content of it And derive learning objectives considering our 16 competencies. But we have to also say it's not necessary to have LO texts for all 16. So it's just like where it's matching. Is this how what's happening now? How you do it now?" I replied saying that - "I think the problem right now is we are sending it on a bulk level and sending all the data once. And so to prevent this problem, what we maybe have to do is individually for each of the 16 competencies, and each level, we should send a prompt, and then have it correctly produced for that prompt."
Ulf replies - "And also ensure that it's also okay to say there is no matching data, because sometimes LLM wouldn't just any way hallucinate. LLM - My task is to find the competency and AI will find it and produce output result even if it's not there. So that we need to ensure that it's like also okay to have no result. Make the LM prompt more stricter and clearer."

An export btn feature needed - we should be able to download or export this learning objectives as an excel. Structure the excel file output similar to the "Learning Objectives" sheet with the table (or matrix) of Competencies and their LO texts, levels, … all in one single sheet. An all-in-one Competency view sheet.

Keep the PMT breakdown structure where we show separately the Process, Method, Tool in the competencies that have any of the P,M,T breakdown. In each competency cards, for orgs with roles defined, we show a "Roles Needing This Level: Integration Engineer (2/4)", etc. We can add a legend at top to indicate what this (2/4) means - there are 4 Integration Engineers who have participated and 2 have not achieved the level yet. Place it near the legend we currently have "Level indicator: Current -> Target".

"Train the trainer" (TTT) strategy discussion when selected - This strategy is something we consider totally differently.
Ulf - "So if this strategy is selected, there should be a third additional path. so we have a path for high maturity, or a path for low maturity, And at the end, when the this path is done, we come to the train the trainer strategy if it is selected. I think it's also part of this learning objectives task and show the dedicated TTT as the next step in this task. 
There are maybe certain other aspects we can consider when it comes to train the trainer. It's not just like the competency they need. I think it's not too important anymore here. It could be the question, do we want external trainers and train them for our company, or do we have internal trainers and train them regarding systems engineering."
Then Ulf thinks - "Level 6 is something for process owners, right? So they need to be able to achieve these. And of course trainers need this as well. But it's not necessary that they are process owners. 
So I will still say that in our LO results page, We will not consider or show the level 6 "Mastery". So we will not consider it because this is something we have in the Backlog, because actually we have to really differentiate between The process owner for Requirements management and if you are the process owner for requirements management, of course then you need level 6, but only in that case. in all the other cases, it's not necessary. So that's why I would say we will, Let's say skip this Level 6 Mastering out of here. It's already a lot of information, So I think it's even a little bit better. And We will then focus on showing levels 1,2,4.
Currently in the UI we show "Level 1 Knowing SE, Level 2 Understanding SE, Level 4 Applying SE"  - Why is there no level 3? We know why we dont have levels 3 and 5 because we only use levels 0,1,2,4,6 for our calculations. From the app user's perspective they dont know about levels. So if you're not aware of the calculation, you will ask, why is that level 3 there. So we can remove the mentioning of Levels in the UI and stick to Knowing SE, Understanding SE, Applying SE. We don't need to explicitly mention the levels.
So, coming back to discussing about when the TTT strategy is selected, we will skip for now the whole topic of level 6 design and implementation. We will bring level 6 to when we talk about process owners. ( I think that the process owners are the roles that are Responsible for any 1 process that we have in the role-process matrix). So if we have time and from the backlog, and we will have the topic of TTT, there will be like another path if it's selected, then there will be New options or a new path only if train the trainer is selected. 
I would say that we first let the app user complete the whole training planning using all the other selected strategies (i.e., completing Phases 3 and 4 as well), then we will make the user come back to Phase 2 LO task in a loop to the TTT strategy handling as the last step.  it's the last topic we would come to. So for now, we can skip the level 6 from our view For Now. Perfect.

Ulf asks me the following : Training Format recommendation: Based on the competency assessment, the idea is to give hints which format would be the best to use independently from the strategy, right?
Provide me an answer after checking our app's current implementation.

Then I showed and explained the Role-based view page. Here we show the Recommended Training Approach in each role. For discussing this further, I presented with Ulf the "DISTRIBUTION_SCENARIO_ANALYSIS.md" file we have. I then explained each and every Scenario described in the file with Ulf. Here, in the  Scenario 3: "90% Beginners, 10% Experts", Ulf liked the idea of Training Method we have shown as "All 20 users attend the training program, 18 beginners are learners, 2 experts attend as facilitators/mentors/helpers", etc.. In the Scenario 4, we show different options A, B, C, ... - Ulf asks me to study Sachin's thesis work on "Identifying suitable learning formats for Systems Engineering". This is a todo for us to thoroughly go through Sachin's thesis where he describes his findings on various learning formats for training based on various inputs. I said to Ulf that - this learning format recommendation mainly comes into phase 3, where we would help in recommending the training format selection - this training method approaches. After showing Ulf all the scenarios in the file, I said - so with all of these scenarios, what we can answer is that we do some pattern analysis of our input data for the roles. And find the similarities or grouping them based on their data input. Providing training approaches that best suits them instead of just finding an overall median And simply finding the learning objectives for it. So yeah, we show different training approaches for each of these scenarios. 

Ulf says - I liked the idea of having these recommended learning formats. Yeah, so this could be part of Phase 3. So we could use this information (All the gap data per users per roles per competency) to have to have like a first indicator for the learning formats recommendation. Then also the Target group size of training we got as an input in Phase 1 and so on. This also we'll take as an input parameter, and with all these information, we will then make recommendations for What might be a good training format. 

Jomon (I myself) asks - So would it be a specialized training format approach, rather than just providing one training format for the whole Training group?
Ulf - this is where it gets again really complex. We need to identify or we need to consider Who needs in which competency? and Which level? Currently in the example "DISTRIBUTION_SCENARIO_ANALYSIS.md" file, we have shown this only for one role. But also all the other roles needs to be considered, And from all these inputs, We need to find whats the best possible recommended learning formats.
So when you're only looking at one role, let's say the Requirements Engineer, and we see from the requirements engineer's Distribution has 50-50, so we should split training into 2 groups. But then from the perspective of all the others (other roles or users) if you consider those as well, it's actually just 4 Requirements Engineers who are really good and the others have all no idea with 0 level values. So maybe instead of calculating this here, We should maybe define some rules or conditional statements.
This will also drive us to not just the question about what kind of training format but also the what kind of modules we have. For the example we talked about, it is like split into 2 groups based on the gaps, so you would have two different modules based on the gaps. But there is also a dependency - if you have two different modules, then of course, you can then have, for example, a novel 2-day training proposed. If you want to get trained level by level, like one can go into the first level and then if they have achieved that, they can go to the next one. But if you want to achieve directly from level one to level 4, Maybe you will not use any more the 2-day training, you would maybe consider coaching, especially when it's only a limited number of people. 
So I think this is a valuable work to get insights (Ulf's talking about the DISTRIBUTION_SCENARIO_ANALYSIS.md file we've created). So this is definitely something we have to use. And this should be part of your thesis. 

Maybe we should differentiate between what kind of modules we need. So is it necessary to differentiate the modules? So actually it would always make sense to say we have 3 modules per competency. Since we don't consider level 6, we would have 3 levels and not 4 per competency. So we have 3 modules per competency. If there is no gap, then when one module can be cut. We should not make it more complex than necessary. 

Maybe we should have a distinction between 2 things: Regarding What are the needed levels (or the needed modules) on the one side, And on the other side What are the needed Approaches or the recommended approaches for these modules. 
So as you see in the DISTRIBUTION_SCENARIO_ANALYSIS.md, in scenario 1 would be Um, no. So For if we if a scenario 1, it would be like we would need 3 modules. 
Scenario 2: no modules. 
Scenario 3: We need 3 modules, but few users don't need them. So then we could use as an idea that We use the experts as mentors.
Scenario 4: We need 3 modules, but it would maybe make sense to get to an external training as a recommendation. The question is, here if I say we recommend to go for certificate, so we are not building up for that small number of training. Um. Then, we don't need modules actually, because we would say external. I then asked Ulf: So if the strategy certification is chosen; is that what we're talking about? Ulf: Yeah, that would be what we're talking about - that would be then the recommendation - to change to that strategy based on that there are only few number of people who have no understanding (2 users at level 0), We recommend to train them differently and not build up a training in here.
Scenario 5: So we have like 50 50 split up groups And again, the full modules since the 3 gaps. 
Scenario 6: we have here, the same number of users on every level, but they all need level 4 as target, so I would say we need all the levels And then it comes also in consideration. 
Scenario 7: we have 80% At level 2, 10% at level 1, it's again makes sense to have modules.
Scenario 8: probably does not make sense to have modules because only a significantly smaller few users Need training and maybe go for certification? Similar to what we discussed for Scenario 4.

Ulf: But as we said, these are just recommendations. So for me, what is more interesting than having this kind of calculation, is like what are the recommendations we would provide? That's what I said previously about defining some rules or conditional statements. 
So if we consider all the roles and all the users (everyone) - So I was thinking, can we do exactly the same for instead of saying that this is in one role, We could use the same and say, okay, these are 1000 people, and these are all engineers. Or everyone who's like or all the roles that might be part of it, and we could easily do the same, but actually it's different because when we have thousands, there would be a differentiation between the level they actually need to achieve. That they all Don't need level 4. Are we making this too complex here? I have the feeling that it gets too complex here. 

Jomon: So this training planning: it's a question of do we go into the depth details for each user of each role? And curating to them, or we find a pattern for the different levels for all the roles. And try to come up with a recommendation. 

Ulf: So actually I would say, let's keep this as it is here (the DISTRIBUTION_SCENARIO_ANALYSIS.md's scenarios and training method recs), the only thing to edit would be like to really consider the Learning formats that Sachin has defined. So use the wording of these formats from Sachin's thesis. That would be for me the important thing. 

And then I think this Learning format selection or modules selection in Phase 3 is it's just a recommendation for the app user. Yeah, so we would need to explain this as you've done it to the user why we've recommended them. 

So because of there are only few persons yeah, we would Recommend this; on the other side for this role here, For example, I'm not sure that we will do it yet, But as I said, we also need to consider, like, not just one role but the others as well. And of course, we would say, if All are in level 0, then we need a group training. But if it's 1000 people and if all 1000 need level 2, maybe then it's an online training. And for those who need level 4 (it's just for 50 people), it's maybe a group training. And that's what's also defined in Sachin's work, that Certain training methods will only apply Or can help reach only a limited level. So with E-learning, you probably might not be able to achieve Applying level. So with e-learning, it can help you create understanding basics. So this aspect also needs to be considered somehow. 

Jomon: So the training group size and the distribution pattern for all the roles - These 2 data and the training group size -  all of these inputs has to be considered into coming up with format recommendations. And it has to be a recommendation. So the user has the ability again to see what the different formats are and choose from them what they like and suits for them. 

Ulf: correct. So I would say, actually, as you said that out, I think that it's not too important here anymore to look at the Role-level deeply. I would say it's more important to take a look at simply the question of How many people do need to achieve level 2 across all the roles and Like where are the gaps? 

Jomon: That's a good point. Yeah, that makes good sense. 

Ulf: Then we can look into What are the roles of these people with gaps here? Or Who are these roles here. So lets say we get a list of 400 people, okay, then it might be a Group training to get there. and then we come to level 4, And as we said, we need also consider the corresponding level we want to achieve. So from level 1 to 2, We would never say to do a group training for that. Because it's like it's actually just to inform people that there is something which is called requirements And That's actually just it. So it's Not sensible to have that. Only, and this is again the question at the end, only if the number of persons would need to achieve level 1, 2 and 4 are equal, Of course, Then, we need to think about - as we don't are able to achieve level 4 (Applying), Maybe it makes sense to bring them all to make this all together in like one big workshop. 

Jomon: is it possible for a group to go from level 1 to level 4 through a group training session? 

Ulf: It's a longer one. Yes, but it would be possible from my perspective. 

Jomon: So it makes sense what you said from the user's perspective - Just looking at the count of users that require each level And then finding patterns or finding recommendations for it. 

Ulf: I'm always trying to think about the company "Miele". So at Miele, there are certain engineers who need to "Understand" Requirements Engineering, there is some more who needs to "Apply" it, And all of them needs to "Know" it And that's why they said - not everyone needs to get into our training. For the "Knowing" ones we will have a Video they can watch and they would be then Aware and that's fine. for the "Understanding" ones there is an Understanding training - it's like an online event for them - How they've implemented it. but it could be also an e-learning, so that's like it's only how they have done it in their own way. And then there's another amount of people who need to have the "Applying" level and there is a certain training for Applying - And they have separated this training in the modules of Method and Tool. So there is also another complexity regarding the learning objectives. 

IMPORTANT: But I mean, this is something, maybe where we say, we only provide the input And how to structure this - So we would say that these are the learning objectives we have derived or identified. Here is a list of things you could do. You can do this online, You can do this as an e-learning, etc.. and You can maybe click on these things and get this overview that Sachin has created to get a better understanding of it. And so alright, these are the ones based on the input we would recommend. So similar as we've seen here and also the rationale behind why we recommend this - for example, big number of participants or not, etc.. 

Jomon: one doubt that I have is we never consider the aspect of cost in our training. Do we? How much costlier or expensive the training formats are. 

IMPORTANT: Ulf: we will not. In Sachin's work, there is like hints about this. So that it's like to create an e-learning, there is a lot of initial effort for that. However, afterwards like you have some. So this is what the user can check and They can read it, and then they can decide. but I would say we would not make too much recommendations about when to choose what. so I would simply say to show - These are the learning objectives you have to work on based on the gaps you have, so we are only focusing on the gaps, which is good. These are the LO you should achieve. What you have to do now is to select a learning format how you think you want to achieve that. And also show - Based on your input We would recommend the format with rationale like - all right, So many people need training in this Competencies - That we make like recommendations, because like a lot of people need to get to level 2, So it's maybe more sensible to use an e-learning format instead of having a course. And We can make these suggestions for each competency. 

Jomon: So on a high level, We are grouping or separating these recommendations for each of the 16 competencies?

Ulf: Correct, So as you I mean, the view that you have that view created already in LO page saying - There is a gap between levels 1 and 2, and you can see How many roles or persons are affected by that or need to bridge that gap and based on that we would recommend the following learning formats/methods (also taking into account other input factors like lower or higher group size selected for training). For example, You can use e-learning to get there and so on. 
I think this is how I think how we should proceed now.

Ulf: However, it was senseful to have a look at this kind of scenarios in the DISTRIBUTION_SCENARIO_ANALYSIS.md, but I think these scenarios are more important not just for one role, but for the whole number of roles. 

Jomon: so I'll look more into the formats defined by Sachin and See what formats we can provide as recommendations as well.

Ulf: We should in our next meeting. we need to take a step back from the implementation aspect and try to draw for ourselves again what kind of design for the process we need for this Learning format recommendations and Modules. I think it's more necessary for me that we focus on how should it be conceptually. So maybe you should try to visualize somehow this - what kind of inputs that we have, and how these inputs are now further considered for the design of these things. Because I realized that I also mix some things up here sometimes with how it should be because it's also not a 100% clear for me. 

Jomon: One doubt that I have is in our current learning objective templates, we have the 16 competencies, and some of them have PMT breakdown and not every competency has this breakdown, And some competencies have PMT breakdown just for the Methods, some have just Processes and Tools. So is the current template okay? 

Ulf: So I would say, the competency "Integration, verification & validation" also needs PMT. Project management, Decision management, Information management, Configuration management - for these 4 competencies there might be P+M+T values needed.

Jomon: so I think we have our learning objectives logic almost Defined completely now and does not need much changes. I also need to thoroughly test the LO task e2e for any bugs in impl of LO design.

Ulf: The only thing is like optimizing and verifying the correct mapping of LO texts to the competencies correctly - the problem we discuss at beginning. But in general, how the process looks like is just as what I expected. Yes, the functionalities to allow user to upload their org data and generate PMT from it and that this is going to be then translated into learning objectives that should be used. 
And In our next meeting, maybe we will as I said we take a step back and focus Maybe only on a how would we do that without all the information we have used before and How would we do that ff these things are not available so that we maybe get a better understanding what is actually necessary And what needs to be considered and whatnot for the next step of Modules selection and Learning format recs in Phase 3. 







