A1. Pyramid Visualization - What to Show? - go with option A. This gives clarity to the viewer that the grayed out competencies have already been achieved for that level. One thing that came to my mind now is that we would have one general pyramid that has competencies listed and does the comparison of overall current value across all roles to the selected strategy target. And For each roles this competency pyramid view would be different as each role would have different requirements. It's like zooming in to see the detail level showing for each role as a new dimension. Does this make sense? I think the meeting notes also mention something like this. I'm not sure.

A2. Strategy Selection Rules - High Maturity - only 1 strategy can be selected. In phase 1, System recommends one strategy for high maturity based on rollout scope criteria we have already implemented in Phase 1 Task 3. Then, "2 strategies possible" = 2 options to choose FROM (but select only 1).

A3. Strategy Selection Rules - Low Maturity - A. Yes → Low maturity orgs must include "SE for managers" + 1 other. B. I think we take the HIGHER target among the 2 strategies. C. "Meeting notes Line 78 say low maturity is "just until level 2, not higher"." - this is not true, because 'SE for managers' and 'orientation in the pilot project' both also have value 4's in their target levels. So, we can assume that the statement "low maturity is just until level 2, not higher" as wrong.

A4. Strategy Validation Outcome - Block or Warn? - To block would be my opinion. And when you talk about Strategy Validation, can you explain what the validation process is? Is it that we check between the role requirements and strategy targets? or is the check between the current values and strategy targets? or something else? Can you refer the meeting notes if this talks about it. Give me your opinion and I can ask Ulf.

A5. Role-Based Aggregation vs User Distribution - there is no such individual coaching where we address the gap of specific users who have gaps within a role. i.e., we do not cater our training plan to users but rather to the roles. So, I would say we go with Option A: Pure Role-Based (Median). Give me your opinion on this. Also I need to confirm this decision with Ulf.

B1. Cross-Strategy Validation Logic - Option A makes sense to me. Also when the strategy too low - we should ask user to retake org's maturity assessment from Phase 1 because they selected low maturity pathway strategy when they should be having a high maturity pathway based strategy. This is my opinion, but I need to confirm with Ulf.

B2. PMT Customization in Low Maturity Path - A. No, Always use standard template objectives. B. This is a tricky question, because a low maturity org would not have defined SE processes, methods or tools actively being used in their org. So, a low maturity org should not be selecting a high maturity strategy that requires PMT in the first place before we even get to learning objectives generation. But we do allow the users to select any strategies to their liking apart from the recommended strategy. Again I need to check with Ulf on this question. C. This question infers that we allow a low maturity org to select a PMT customization required strategy. Since the org has low maturity, they would not be having defined SE tools being used in their org. So they do not have a Tools value they can input in the PMT input form. i.e., Only customize with processes/methods, not tools. Also, there are no such "tool" competencies, but if you check the learning objectives templates, we can see that some of the templates have subdivision to process, method, tools in their objectives text. A good question I need to confirm with Ulf.

B3. Levels 1, 2, 4, 6 - Valid Combinations - A. yes you are correct. The competency scale: 0, 1, 2, 4, 6 only (no 3, 5). B. Our current role-competency matrix calculation should not be calculating 3 or 5 values. You can create a todo for future to verify this. C. What about current user assessments? Can users assess themselves as level 3 or 5? - Our Phase 2 Competency assessment is implementation complete and I think the answer options to each competency questions map to values that are not 3,5. You can again verify this by checking our code.

B4. Progressive Learning Levels - Which Intermediate Steps? - A. Yes, all three levels. B. Yes. C. Yes. D. Yes.

B5. Role Assignment to Levels - Granularity - This question again seems like a question on what's the aggregation basis. Again I think we should somehow find an aggregate for current level for each roles. And then I don't think we would need to think about users and only think about roles as the deepest granular level. This is my opinion. I need to check with Ulf on this.

D1. Train the Trainer - Completely Separate - your understanding is correct. This question is a further question "Do you want internal or external trainers?" that comes after selection of 'Train the trainer' strategy. I think then some decisions should follow from the answer to this question. I need to confirm with Ulf.

D2. Low Maturity = Levels 1-2 Only, No Higher - This is wrong. I've described about this somewhere in the above paragraphs. Low maturity pathway strategies like "SE for managers" already contain level 4's as target values.

D3. yes, you are correct.