Pyramid Structure
1. Level Assignment: "For a role with competency target = 4 and current = 0, does this role appear in level 1, 2, AND 4 modules? Or only level 4?" - yes, in all the modules and not just in level 4.
2. Training Sequencing: "Are the levels meant to be sequential trainings (first attend Level 1 course, then Level 2, then Level 4)? Or just organizational modules?" - yes, we do sequential training, but we do such planning of training in the Phase 3, and yes we are doing Phases 1 to 4 in this thesis. In this Phase 2 Task 3, we identify the requirements of training by identifying the gaps and defining the levels of competencies that the various roles need training.
3. Graying Out: "When we gray out a level (e.g., Level 1), does it mean:- No competencies have level 1 gaps? OR - No users need level 1 training?": My understanding is that we should show all 16 competencies in each of the 4 levels in the pyramid and gray out the ones that does not have a training requirement. Also, we have decided that the training planning's lowest granules are the roles and not the users. i.e., we develop the training plan for the Roles and not for the individual users.
4. Strategy Validation: "If validation says 'selected strategies inadequate,' how does this affect the pyramid? Do we not show pyramid until strategies are fixed?" - I think there was a discussion note in the Meeting regarding this problem. In phase 1, we determine the org's maturity level, and in phase 2 we do the competency assessments of employees. The completed assessment results should reflect the org's maturity level from Phase 1. i.e., if we had high maturity in phase 1, and if the competency assessment results are low scores, then we realize that the org's actual maturity level is low. In Phase 2 Task 3, we then ask the user to do a re-evaluation or retake of their org's maturity assessment in Phase 1. The strategy selection is derived or recommended from the maturity level of the org. So, in Phase 2 Task 3 - when we do the strategy validation, if we see the selected strategy is not adequate, then we prompt user to re-evaluate maturity assessment and the strategy selection in Phase 1. And we do not show pyramid until strategies are fixed. Some context for you regarding strategies - If org has high maturity, we only have one strategy selected - either "Continuous support" or "Needs-based, project-oriented training". If low maturity, the org selects 2 strategies - "SE for managers" and one of the 3 strategies (Common basic understanding, Orientation in pilot project, Certification). Independent of the maturity based strategy selection, we have "Train the trainer" strategy that the org can select as their own preference. What I'm meaning to tell you from all this context regarding strategies is that our current implementation tries to check if the combination of various strategies selected somehow suits the competency assessment results data for each of the competencies. This is wrong. We alert the user with the explanation I did in above sentences and prompt them to do re-evaluation of maturity assessment and training strategy. In a low maturity org, there would be 2 strategies selected and we also do not have any roles defined. So, maybe we take the highest level from both these strategies to be the target level? In a high maturity org, we would have only 1 strategy selected, so this wont be a problem. (excluding Train the trainer strategy).


Aggregation
5. Distribution Handling: "When 9/10 users are experts and 1 is beginner, you said individual coaching. How do we represent this in the pyramid? Does the competency still appear, but flagged as 'individual coaching needed'?" - we do not have individual coaching for specific users. But we can have different roles to have different training requirements. Also note that roles exist only in high maturity orgs.
6. Threshold Values: "What percentage of users needing training should trigger group training? 70%? 50%?" - I don't know, I'm confused here again because we only have a unified training plan and with maybe different training competency needs for different roles. I think we need to rethink our topic of user distribution.