Phase 3: Macro Planning

4.5 Setting up the rough concept of SE training
Once  it  has  been  determined  which  archetypes  are  to  be  used  for  the  qualification  and learning  objectives  have  been  defined  for  the  specific  company,  the  rough  concept  of the qualification follows. In addition to the scheduling of the measures, the content and implementation  are  defined  here.  No  company-specific  methods  are  considered  for  the majority of archetypes, especially those with a lower level of maturity. Standard training courses  with  minor  adaptations  make  sense  here.  The  rough  conception  of  these archetypes  is  explained  in  more  detail  in  chapter  4.5.1.  The  archetypes  needs-based project-oriented  training  and  continuous  support,  on  the  other  hand,  require  the selection of special modules in order to achieve the learning objectives. The planning of this type of work is discussed in more detail in chapter 4.5.2.4.5.1 Rough conception of archetypes without module selectionThe  common  basic  understanding  archetype  comprises  simple  basic  training  courses for SE. Depending on the given format, these training courses, which can be internal or external, usually take place in two to three-day sections in which an overview of the SE topic  area  is  provided.  This  type  of  training  is  often  carried  out  by  external  companies and  therefore  only  includes  a  small  amount  of  company-specific  content.  [Fra25-ol, Gla25-ol]The  SE  archetype  for  managers  requires  more  individualized  content  as  a  common basic understanding in order to convince managers of the topic. Here, managers learn the  basics  of  SE  and  what  it  means  for  the  company  to  apply  it.  The  archetype  can therefore also be understood as basic training specific to managers. This archetype can take two days, for example, and can take place internally or externally. [VDI25-ol]Certifications  also  do  not  require  any  further  content  planning,  as  the  content  is specified by the curriculum. However, scheduling is necessary. Certifications take place externally  with  certification  providers  and  offer  their  own  modules  for  qualification. [SEZ22-ol] The duration of a certification training course varies depending on the type of  certification.  SE-Zert  training  courses  have  a  duration  of  12  days,  for  ASEP  three days are scheduled. [Rüc25a-ol, Rüc25b-ol]The  orientation  archetype  in  the  pilot  project  functions  as  a  hands-on  approach. Qualification  takes  place  here  through  the  application  of  SE  in  a  real  project  in  the company.  The  qualification  then  generally  corresponds  to  the  duration  of  the  project. Content is specified by the project itself and is not selected.

4.5.2 Rough conception of archetypes with module selection
In these archetypes, a specific selection of competencies was made, which are further developed as learning modules in line with requirements. The core competencies of KÖNEMANN ET  AL  [KWA+22,  p.  5f.]  describe  competencies  that  cannot  be  specifically  qualified. They  arise  through  the  learning  and  application  of  the  remaining  competencies.  When selecting and designing modules, it is important to check whether there are redundancies in the content of individual modules due to previous training courses.In  the  case  of  continuous  support,  specific  content  is  provided,  for  example  in  a learning management system, so that it can always be accessed. Learning paths can be defined  for  the  qualification  that  are  tailored  to  the  employees  and  needs  of  the company. Continuous support is made available to employees at all times and supports continuous learning. The archetype is therefore not time-limited. [SAP25-ol]In  the  needs-based,  project-oriented  training  archetype,  training  is  tailored  to  the needs  and  requirements  of  the  company.  Based  on  the  competencies  and  learning  objectives identified  in  chapter  4.4,  modules  must  be  selected  that  are  tailored  to  the  desired learning  objectives.  Existing  training  courses  in  the  company  must  also  be  taken  into account.  If,  for  example,  training  courses  on  project  management  already  exist  for  the desired  level,  no  new  qualification  measures  need  to  be  developed  for  this  module. These  existing  modules  can  then  be  used  if  they  fulfill  the  learning  objectives.  The archetype  also  makes  it  possible  to  select  or  exclude  certain  competencies  for  qualification  if they  are  not  required.  Modularization  into  individual  competencies  allows  companies  to  only train  competencies  that  are  necessary.  The  duration  of  the  training  depends  on  the  number  and desired  depth  of  the  individual  modules.  Concrete  topics  and  content  must  be  defined based on the identified competencies. The learning objectives can support this.If, for example, the learning objectives Understanding requirements management, Applying  architecture  design  and  Recognizing  operation,  service,  maintenance  have been  identified  for  the  developer  role  cluster,  it  must  first  be  checked  whether  the desired competencies can already be covered by existing training courses. For example, if there is already a training course for operation, service and maintenance that reaches the "Recognize" competence level, it is not necessary to set up a new training course for this.  If  basic  training  is  already  offered  for  architecture  design,  but  only  reaches  the "Understand"  level,  this  can  be  used  as  an  introduction  to  the  topic.  Further  measures, such as workshops in company-specific application examples or coaching in the working environment, can be used to supplement the introduction in order to reach the "Apply" level. If requirements management has not yet been dealt with in the company, new content must be developed here.  After basic training on the topic by external experts, the knowledge can be further deepened using company examples. The specific content and necessary tools can be assigned to the competence pyramid as shown in Fig. 4-6


4.5.3 Selection of learning formats
Once  the  content  of  the  training  courses  has  been  defined,  specific  formats  must  be selected  and  planned.  The  KUMAR  learning  forum  profiles  can  be  used  to  support  the selection  of  formats.  [Kum23,  A-5ff.]  These  provide  a  detailed  description  of  the various formats. KUMAR assigns suitable learning formats to the different archetypes in a matrix  and  evaluates  the  suitability  for  different  archetypes.  [Kum23,  p.  85]  The identified learning profiles, shown as an example in Figure 4-7, provide further information on the individual learning formats.

