Learning objectives for the competences  and  competence levels are defined in chapter 4.4.1. The learning objectives serve as an overview of the competencies to be learned and  to  check  learning  progress.  The  learning  objectives  of the  competencies  differ  according  to  the  selected  archetypes.  Chapter  4.4.2  explains how  the  competencies  of  the  roles  are  determined  and  specifies  which  competence levels  are  achieved  in  the  archetypes.  Finally,  it  is  necessary  to  compare  the  current competencies  with  the  desired  competencies.  Derik's  competency  assessor  is  used for this purpose.

4.4.1 Definition of learning objectives for the qualification

Once  the  archetypes  and  roles  have  been  defined,  the  next  step  is  to  develop  learning objectives  for  the  individual  competencies.  To  do  this,  it  is  necessary  to  determine which  competence  level  the  individual  competences  can  achieve  in  the  respective archetypes.  The  competences  to  be  considered were  examined  by experts  as  part  of  this  work  and  the  respective  competence  levels  to  be  achieved  were determined  based  on  the  archetypes.  The  competence  levels  to  be  achieved  are  not identical  for  all  competences  of  an  archetype,  as  these  set  different  priorities  for qualification. The table of target competence levels for the archetypes is shown in Table.

Learning  objectives  for  each  competence  can  now  be  derived  specifically  from  the identified  qualification  levels.  In  the  SE4OWL  research  project  and  in  the  expert workshop  for  this  work,  corresponding  learning  objectives  were  defined  for  each  level of  the  individual  competencies.  With  a  few  exceptions,  these  can  be  divided  into  the categories of process skills, methodological skills and tool skills (PMT). The learning 
objectives formulated in the workshops are deliberately kept general so that they can be applied  in  different  companies.  One  example  of  this  is  the  learning  objective  of  tool competence in requirements management at the "Apply" level: "Participants can define, link  and  analyze  requirements  in  a  requirements  tool."  These  learning  objectives  must be further specified for company-specific qualification, as general specifications are not 
sufficient  to  develop  tailor-made  training  measures.  For  the  tool  competencies  in requirements management, it is necessary to name specific tools in the learning objectives that are used in the respective company. For example, the IBM DOORS tool can  be  defined  as  a  requirements  tool.  A  corresponding  learning  objective  would  then read:
"Participants will be able to define, link and analyze requirements in the IBM DOORS tool."  Specific  content  must  also  be  defined  for  the  process  and  methodological  skills and adapted to the respective company requirements.

The  expert  workshop  agreed  that  training  should  be  divided  into  process  and  method training  as  well  as  tool  training.  According  to  the  experts,  training  within  a  company only  makes  sense  up  to  the  fourth  level,  "Apply".  The  "mastery"  level  is  only  relevant for  the  "train  the  trainer"  archetype,  whereby  the  qualification  for  this  takes  place externally. For this reason, the learning objectives in this paper are only defined for the competence levels "Know", "Understand" and "Apply". The subdivision of the competencies  into  methods  &  processes  and  tools  and  the  differentiation  according  to competence levels results in a total of 48 different learning modules. It was also found that  the  4 core  competencies (Systems Thinking, Systems Modelling and Analysis, Lifecycle Consideration, Customer / Value Orientation) cannot  be  specifically  trained. 
These competencies are achieved by qualifying the remaining competencies.


4.4.2 Determining the competencies of the roles - Competency assessment 

Once  the  objectives  of  the  qualification  have  been  determined  and  learning  objectives have been specifically defined, the employees' current competencies are measured. The competency  assessor  is  suitable  for  the 
assessment  of  competencies.  It  is  based  on  the  competencies  of  KÖNEMANN  ET  AL, which are examined in the context of this work. The role evaluation is  based  on  the  role  clusters  assigned  to  the  employees. It  should  be noted that the competency assessor uses the roles to represent the final target competencies, which are not directly targeted in every archetype. Often, basic knowledge should first be created in intermediate steps. The competency assessor must therefore  be  expanded  so  that  the  target  competencies  of  the  archetypes  are  taken  into account in the assessment. A training requirement in a competence can be derived if the current  competence  of  a  role  is  below  the  target  competence  of  the  archetype.  If  the current level is at or above the target competence of the archetype, qualification within the selected archetype is no longer necessary. It should then be checked whether the role should be further qualified within another archetype. If the target level of an archetype is  above  the  maximum  value  required  for  a  role,  it  should  also  be  checked  whether qualification within this archetype makes sense. Selecting an archetype that has a lower qualification  target  may  make  sense  here.  An example of the  breakdown  of  the  target  competence levels between roles, archetypes and competencies is shown in Fig. 4-5.
The figure shows that the current competency level in the competencies "Operation, Service and Maintenance"  and  "Integration,  Verification  &  Validation"  is  below  the  target  level  to be achieved with the archetype "Common Basic Understanding". A qualification requirement can be derived from this. The  target  level  of  the  role  has  already  been  reached  for  the  "System  architecture design"  competence,  and  the  "Agile  methodological  competence"  competence  even exceeds  this.  Here,  it  should  be  checked  individually  whether  there  is  still  a  need  for further qualification or whether the existing qualification is already sufficient. In the competence "Requirements management", the competence level intended for the current  archetype  has  already  been  achieved.  However,  the  final  target  competence  is still  higher.  Here  it  should  be  checked  whether  it  makes  more  sense  to  continue  the qualification on the basis of another archetype. As  there  is  no  selection  of  individual  modules  for  the  "Common  basic  understanding" archetype,  an  individual  decision  must  be  made  as  to  whether  the  selected  archetype makes sense. The competencies "Operation, service and maintenance" and "Integration, verification & validation" require further qualification, which is why basic training may be  useful.  For  the  remaining  competencies,  the  competency level  for  the  archetype  has  already been reached.
